



## SAM2695


## LOW POWER SINGLE CHIP SYNTHESIZER
## WITH EFFECTS AND BUILT-IN CODEC




 Single chip all-in-one design.
o   MIDI control processor, serial and parallel interface
o   Synthesis, General MIDI wavetable implementation
o   General MIDI compatible effects: reverb + chorus
o   Spatial   Effect
o   4-band stereo equalizer
o   Stereo DAC. DR: 86dB typ, THD+N: -75dB typ
o   Mike input. DR: 86dB typ, THD+N: -75dB typ
o   Mike   echo

 State of the art synthesis for best quality/price products
o   64-voice polyphony (without effects)
o   38-voice polyphony + effects
o   On-chip CleanWave™ wavetable data, firmware, RAM delay lines

 Audio stereo line output.

 Typical applications: battery operated musical keyboards, portable phones,
karaokes.

 QFN48 (6 x 6mm) package: small footprint, small pin count

 Low power
o   18 mA typ Operating / 17 μA typ Power down
o   Single 3.3V power supply


## MIDI IN












## Audio
## Out
Typical hardware configuration


## SAM2695
Parallel MIDI



Cited trademarks belong to their respective owners, General MIDI logo under license of MIDI Manufacturers Association
© 2013-2014 DREAM S.A.S. FRANCE - All rights reserved


## 2
## SAM2695

## 1- PIN DESCRIPTION

1-1- PINS BY FUNCTION – 48-lead QFN Package
- 5VT indicates a 5 volt tolerant Input or I/O pin.
-  DR4,  DR8 indicates driving capability at VOL, VOH (see § 4- D.C. CHARACTERISTICS)

Power supply group

Pin name Pin # Type Description
## GND 9, 13, 18, 25,
## 36, 45, 48
## PWR    DIGITAL    GROUND
All pins should be connected to a ground plane
GND                   exposed                   die
pad
## PWR    DIGITAL    GROUND
Ground supply; down bonded to the exposed die pad (heatsink).
It is recommended, but not obligatory, to connect this pad to a
ground plane during PCB layout
## VD33 8, 11, 20, 31,
## 35, 41, 46
PWR    PERIPHERY POWER SUPPLY (+2.7V to 3.6V)
All VD33 pins should be returned to nominal +3.3V.
AGND                4                PWR                ANALOG                GROUND
This pin should be connected to an analog ground plane
## VA33 6 PWR    CODEC PERIPHERY ANALOG SUPPLY
This pin should be connected to a nominal 3.3V power through a
serial inductor filter (better result) or a 10 ohm resistor.


Serial MIDI, parallel MIDI

Pin name Pin # Type Description
MIDI_IN              16              IN-5VT  Serial  TTL  MIDI  IN.  Connected  to  the  built-in  synthesizer  at
power-up. This pin has a built-in pull up. It should be left open or
tied HIGH if not used.
## D0-D7                24,                26-30,
## 32, 33
## I/O
## -5VT-DR8
8-bit data bus to host processor.
Information on these pins is parallel MIDI
A0                      10                      IN-5VT  Select  data(0)  or  control(1)  for  write,  data(0)  or  status(1)  for
read.
CS/                     14                     IN-5VT  Chip  select,  active  low.  This  pin  has  a  built-in  pull  up.  It  should
be left unconnected if not used.
RD/                     15                     IN-5VT  Read,  active  low.  When  CS/  and  RD/  are  low,  data  (A0=0)  or
status (A0=1) is read on D0-D7. Read data is acknowledged on
the rising edge of RD/.
WR/                    12                    IN-5VT  Write,  active  low.  When  CS/  and  WR/  are  low,  data  (A0=0)  or
control (A0=1) is written from the D0-D7 bus to the SAM2695 on
the rising edge of WR/.
IRQ                    42                    OUT-DR4  A rising edge indicates that a MIDI byte is available for read on
D0-D7. Acknowledged by reading the byte.


Analog audio group

Pin name Pin # Type Description
MICIN 7 IN Analog microphone input.
AOUTL 1 OUT Left channel audio line or headphones output
AOUTR 2 OUT Right channel audio line or headphones output
VCM 5 OUT Analog common-mode voltage. Should be stabilized by external
capacitors 10μF // 100nF to AGND.
VCMHPOUT 3 OUT Analog headphones common-mode voltage buffer output.



## 3
## SAM2695


Miscellaneous group

Pin name Pin # Type Description
RST/PD/             38             IN-5VT    Master reset and Power down. Schmitt trigger input.
RST/PD/ should be held low during at least 10ms after power is
applied.
On the rising edge of RST/PD/ the chip enters its initialization
routine.
When  RST/PD/  is  low,  Power-down  is  active:  8-bit  port  data
lines are High-Z. IRQ is set to 0. The PLL is stopped and supply
voltage  is  removed  from  analog  and  digital  core.  To  exit  from
power down, RST/PD/ must be set to VD33.
X1-X2  39,  40  -  9.6  MHz  or  12  MHz  crystal  connection.  An  external  clock  can
also be used on X1.
XDIV 47 IN System clock divider.
- When grounded, it allows using 9.6MHz crystal
- When connected to VD33, it allows using 12MHz crystal
OUTVC12  34  PWR     3.3V  to  1.2  V  regulator  output.  The  built-in  regulator  gives  1.2V
for internal use only (core supply).
4.7μF   or   10μF   Decoupling   capacitor   must   be   connected
between OUTVC12 and GND.
TEST 37 IN Test pin with a built-in pull-down. It should be grounded or left
open for normal operation.
## NC 17, 19, 21-23;
## 43, 44
- Not connected pins.




1-2- PINOUT BY PIN # - 48-lead QFN Package

Pin# Signal Name Pin# Signal Name Pin#Signal Name Pin# Signal Name
## 1         AOUTL         13
## GND
## 25
## GND
## 37       TEST
## 2         AOUTR         14         CS/ 26        D1        38        RST/PD/
3         VCMHPOUT          15         RD/         27         D2         39         X1
## 4
## AGND
## 16         MIDI_IN         28         D3         40         X2
## 5         VCM         17         NC         29         D4         41
## VD33
## 6
## VA33
## 18
## GND
## 30        D5        42        IRQ
## 7         MICIN         19         NC         31
## VD33
## 43       NC
## 8
## VD33
## 20
## VD33
## 32        D6        44        NC
## 9
## GND
## 21         NC         33         D7         45
## GND
## 10       A0 22         NC         34         OUTVC12         46
## VD33
## 11
## VD33
## 23         NC         35
## VD33
## 47       XDIV
## 12       WR/ 24         D0         36
## GND
## 48
## GND




## 4
## SAM2695
1-3- MECHANICAL DIMENSIONS – 48-lead MQFN Package




## ZI
21140 Semur-en-Auxois
## FRANCE
## TITLE
48 LD MQFN (6x6mm) Package Outline
L/F Material: A194 FH

Package designation

## MQFN48
## REV.






## 5
## SAM2695

## 1-4- MARKING



## SAM2695
## FRANCE
## YYWW
## XXXXX-XXX
## •






## Pin 1


## 6
## SAM2695

2- ABSOLUTE MAXIMUM RATINGS (All voltages with respect to 0V, GND=0V)*

## Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit
Temperature under bias - -55 - +125 °C
Storage temperature - -65 - +150 °C
Voltage on any 5 volt tolerant pin (5VT)                            -                            -0.3                            -                            5.5                            V
Voltage on any non-5 volt tolerant pin - -0.3 - VD33+0.3 V
Supply voltage (I/O) VD33 -0.3 - 3.6 V
Supply voltage (CODEC analog 3.3V) VA33 -0.3 - 3.6 V

*NOTICE: Stresses beyond those listed under “Absolute Maximum Ratings” may cause permanent damage to
the  device.  This  is  a  stress  rating  only  and  functional  operation  of  the  device  at  these  or  any  other  conditions
beyond  those  indicated  in  the  operational  sections  of  this  specification  is  not  implied.  Exposure  to  absolute
maximum rating conditions for extended periods may affect device reliability.


## 3- RECOMMENDED OPERATING CONDITIONS

## Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit
Digital supply voltage VD33 2.7 3.3 3.6 V
Analog supply voltage (CODEC) VA33 2.7 3.3 3.6 V
Operating ambient temperature tA -25 - +70 °C


## 4- D.C. CHARACTERISTICS
(TA=25°C, VD33=3.3V, X1=12 MHz, AOUTL/AOUTR load = 47kΩ)

## Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit
Low level input voltage VIL - - 0.8 V
High level input voltage on 5VT pins VIH 2 - - V
High level input voltage on non 5VT pins VIH 2 - - V
Low level output voltage  at IOL = IOHL Min VOL - - 0.4 V
High level output voltage at IOH = IOHL Min VOH 2.4 - - V
Schmitt-trigger negative-to-threshold voltage VTN 0.8 1.1 - V
Schmitt-trigger positive-to-threshold voltage VTP - 1.6 2 V
Driving capability at VOL, VOH for DR4 pins IOHL - - 4 mA
Driving capability at VOL, VOH for DR8 pins IOHL -  8 mA
Input leakage current IIN -10 ±1 10 μA
OUTVC12 output voltage VD12 1.14 1.2 1.26 V
Digital power supply current  ID33 - 10 - mA
Analog power supply current  IA33 - 8 - mA
Power down supply current - - 17 - μA
Pull-up, Pull-down or Keeper resistor Rudk 30 75 190 kΩ





## 7
## SAM2695
## 5- DAC. CHARACTERISTICS
## (TA=25°C, VA33=3.3V)

## Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit
## Total Harmonic Distortion + Noise
(at - 6 dB)
THD + N - -75 - dB
Dynamic Range (-60dBFS with A-Weighted)                  DR                  -                   86                   -                  dB
Inter-channel isolation (1kHz) - 89 - - dB
Full-scale output voltage - - 0.85*VA33 - Vpp
VCM Maximum allowable DC current source - - - 0.1 mA
VCM Reference voltage
(with 10μF and 100nF capacitors)
## - VA33 ÷ 2
– 50mV
## VA33 ÷ 2 VA33 ÷ 2
+ 50mV
## V
## Output Gain Control
- 1dB steps
- Additional setting 1
- Additional setting 2
## -
## -40
## -43.5
## -58.5

## +6


dB
dB
dB
Maximum output power in Headphones mode -  30  mW


## 6- ADC. CHARACTERISTICS
## (TA=25°C, VA33 = 3.3V)

## Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit
## Total Harmonic Distortion + Noise
(at - 6 dB)
THD + N- - 75 -70 dB
Dynamic Range (-60dBFS with A-Weighted)                    DR                    -                    86                                        dB
Full-scale input voltage -  0.6*VA33  Vpp
Input Gain without boost -  +4  dB
Input Gain with boost - +22 +24  dB
Input Programmable Gain Amplifier (1dB steps) - -27  +36 dB
Frequency response ( -3dB bandwidth) - 0.41   Fs
MICIN input resistance with boost disabled -  35  kOhm
MICIN input resistance with boost enabled -  3.5  kOhm


## 8
## SAM2695

## 7- TIMINGS

## 7-1- SLAVE 8-BIT PARALLEL INTERFACE

This interface is typically used to connect the chip to an host processor.

## A0
## CS/
## RD/
## D0-D7
tavcs
tcslrd l
tp rdtrd hcsh
trdldvtdrh
8-bit parallel interface read cycle
## IR Q


## A0
## CS/
## WR/
## D0-D7
tavcs
tcslw rl
tp w rtw rhcsh
td w std w h
8-bit parallel interface w rite cycle
tw rcyc


## Parameter Symbol Min Typ Max Unit
Address valid to chip select low tavcs 0 - - ns
Chip select low to RD/ low tcslrdl 5 - - ns
RD/ high to CS/ high trdhcsh 5 - - ns
RD/ pulse width tprd 50 - - ns
Data out valid from RD/ trdldv - - 20 ns
Data out hold from RD/  tdrh 5 - 10 ns
Chip select low to WR/ low tcslrwrl 5 - - ns
WR/ high to CS/ high twrhcsh 5 - - ns
WR/ pulse width tpwr 50 - - ns
Write data setup time  tdws 10 - - ns
Write data hold time tdwh 0 - - ns
Write cycle twrcyc 3.5   μs

## Notes:

- When data is pending on parallel port, the host should read it within 1 ms. If not, the parallel port will be
deactivated. Reactivating the port can be done with the following control sequence: 0FFh (Closed port), 03Fh
(Open port).
- For safe operation, write cycle time should not be lower than 3.5μs.



## 9
## SAM2695

## 8- RESET AND POWER DOWN

During  power-up,  the  RST/PD/  input  should  be  held  low  during  10ms.  A  typical  RC/diode
power-up network can be used.
After  the  low  to  high  transition  of  RST/PD/,  the  SAM2695  enters  an  initialization  routine.  It
takes around 50 ms before a MIDI IN or MPU message can be processed.
Audio will begin after 500 ms, maximum.

If RST/PD/ is asserted low then the crystal oscillator and PLL will be stopped. The chip enters
a  deep  power  down  sleep  mode,  as  power  is  removed  from  the  core.  To  exit  power  down,
RST/PD/ has to be asserted high.

## 8-1- PIN STATUS IN POWER-DOWN

Table  below  shows  the  status  of  each  pin  in  Normal  mode  (RST/PD/  High)  and  in  Power-
down mode (RST/PD/ Low)

Pin Status in Normal mode Status in Power-down mode
MIDI IN IN with Pull-up resistor IN with Keeper resistor
CS/                                            IN                                            IN                                            (floating)
RD/                                            IN                                            IN                                            (floating)
WR/                                           IN                                           IN                                           (floating)
IRQ OUT OUT – Low Level
A0 IN IN with Keeper resistor
D[7:0]                                        I/O                                        IN                                        (floating)
LHPOUT ANA OUT ANA OUT – VCM Level
RHOUT ANA OUT ANA OUT – VCM Level
VCMHPOUT ANA OUT ANA OUT – VCM Level
VCM ANA OUT ANA OUT – VCM Level
## MICIN ANA IN ANA IN
RST/PD/ IN IN driven Low
## X1 – X2 Oscillator Power-down
XDIV IN IN with Keeper resistor
TEST IN with Pull-down resistor IN with Pull-down resistor

## Note:
-    Keeper resistor can be pull-up or pull-down resistor. This depends on logic state at the
pin where it is connected when switching to Power-down mode.
o   If logic state is ‘Low’ when entering Power-down mode, keeper resistor will be
pull-down
o   If logic state is ‘High’ when entering Power-down mode, keeper resistor will be
pull-up
-    In a designs where it is planned to use the Power-down mode, external pull up or pull
down resistor should be added on each pin that have the “IN (floating)” status and that is
not externally driven in Power-down mode. To avoid consumption in Normal mode these
resistors can have high value like 1MOhm.



## 10
## SAM2695

## 9- RECOMMENDED CRYSTAL COMPENSATION




## 10- ANALOG INPUT AND OUTPUTS

The  schematics  of  this  section  are  the  reference  designs  for  SAM2695  analog  input  and
outputs. The conformity with these schematics ensures the best performances.

## 10-1- LINE OUTPUT



## 10-2- HEADPHONES OUTPUT




## 11
## SAM2695

## 10-3- HEADPHONES OR LINE OUTPUT



## 10-4- MICROPHONE INPUT




## 12
## SAM2695

## 11- RECOMMENDED BOARD LAYOUT



Like all HCMOS high integration ICs, following simple rules of board layout is mandatory for
reliable operations:


   GND, VD33, VA33 distribution and decoupling

All  GND,  VD33,  VA33  pins  should  be  connected.  A  GND  plane  is  strongly  recommended
below   the   SAM2695.   The   board   GND,   VD33,   distribution   should   be   in   grid   form.
Recommended decoupling is 4.7 or 10μF close to OUTVC12 pin. Each VD33 and VA33 pin
requires  0.1μF.  An  additional  10μF-T  capacitor  should  be  placed  on  VD33,  close  to  the
crystal. Decoupling capacitors should be implemented close to the IC.


##    Crystal

The paths between the crystal, the crystal compensation capacitors and the SAM2695 should
be  short  and  shielded.  The  ground  return  from  the  compensation  capacitors  should  be  the
GND plane from SAM2695.

   D0-D7   Bus

A  ground  plane  should  be  implemented  below  the  D0-D7  bus,  which  connects  both  to  the
host and to the SAM2695 GND.


   Analog   section

A  specific  AGND  ground  plane  should  be  provided,  which  connects  by  a  single  trace  to  the
GND ground. No digital signals should cross the AGND plane.






## 13
## SAM2695
## SAM2695 USER’S MANUAL


## 1- PARALLEL AND SERIAL MIDI MODES

The SAM2695 can be controlled both from the parallel interface (D0-D7, CS/, WR/, RD/, INT)
or from the serial MIDI interface (MIDI IN).

The parallel Interface consists of two byte registers and one IRQ (interrupt request) line:

I/O address Write from host Read to host
## A0 = 0 DATA8 DATA8
## A0 = 1 CONTROL STATUS
## Status Register

## TE      RF      X       X       X      X      X      X

TE: Transmit empty.
If 0, data from SAM2695 to host is pending and IRQ is high.
When host is reading the data in DATA8 register (A0 = 0), TE goes to1 and IRQ is low
again.
RF: Receiver full.
If 0 then SAM2695 is ready to accept CONTROL or DATA from host. However,
minimum time between two consecutive writes must be 3.5 μs (even if RF is not set).

## 1-1- SERIAL & PARALLEL MODES

Serial mode:
After power-up, hardware reset or parallel reset control, the SAM2695 is in serial mode:
In  this  mode,  the  parallel  MIDI  interface  is  inactive  and  the  IRQ  line  is  floating.  The  serial
MIDI IN is connected to the synthesis.
In serial mode, the 8-bit parallel interface accepts two controls:
   3Fh to switch to parallel mode
SAM2695 is acknowledging 3Fh control by sending to host FEh in DATA8 register.
   BEh to send any control (see list of control message in chapter 2-2).
BEh allows to send only one control, which means that each control sent in serial mode
should start with BEh control.

Parallel mode:
In parallel mode, all data received by SAM2695 on its serial MIDI IN pin is sent to host
through the 8-bit register DATA8 but is not sent to synthesis.
Midi Data received by SAM2695 from host through register DATA8 is sent to the synthesis.
Parallel mode accepts following controls:
    FFh (parallel mode reset) switch back to serial mode.
    Additional controls listed in paragraph 2.2.
These additional controls, being independent of the MIDI data flow, allow to easily insert
some special messages (for controlling some SAM2695 effect modules), in the middle of
a MIDI data flow.


## 14
## SAM2695

The following diagram illustrates serial and parallel mode:





## SYNTHESIS
DATA8 OUT (to Host)
DATA8 IN (from Host)
Serial MIDI IN

## SYNTHESIS
DATA8 OUT (to Host)
DATA8 IN (from Host)
Serial MIDI IN
## Parallel Mode
## Serial Mode




## 15
## SAM2695

## 2- CONFIGURATION AND SPECIAL MESSAGES

SAM2695 includes the following modules: 4-band Equalizer, Chorus effect, Reverb effect, Spatial effect, Mike
input, Mike Echo.
Some special messages allow to set parameters for these modules. Messages have two formats:
- NRPN or SysEx midi messages: this format can be use either in serial mode or in parallel mode
- Parallel controls: this format should be used in parallel mode only.

## 2-1 SPECIAL MIDI MESSAGES
(received on serial MIDI in serial mode or on 8-bit data port in parallel mode)

Special midi messages are sent using midi Nrpn messages. These NRPN messages are mainly using NRPN
high=037h. For example, master volume can be set using NRPN "3707h", which means:
- NRPN high = 037h: midi control 99 (63h) = 55 (37h)  --> midi message = 0B0h 063h 037h
- NRPN low = 07h: midi control 98 (62h) = 07 (07h) --> midi message = 0B0h 062h 07h
- NRPN value=vv: midi control 6 (06h) =vv  ---> midi message = 0B0h 006h vv
vv being master volume value in range 0 to 127 (0 to 7Fh).

Here is below list of all special NRPNs.
For controlling reverb/chorus, use standard reverb/chorus midi system exclusive messages listed in paragraph
3 "Detailed MIDI implementation".

## NRPN #
(High|Low)
## Description
## Power-up
default
3700h              Equalizer Low band (bass)  0=-12dB, 40h=0dB, 7Fh=+12dB 60h
3701h    Equalizer Med Low band   0=-12dB, 40h=0dB, 7Fh=+12dB 40h
3702h    Equalizer Med High band  0=-12dB, 40h=0dB, 7Fh=+12dB 40h
3703h    Equalizer High band (treble)  0=-12dB, 40h=0dB, 7Fh=+12dB 60h
3707h    Master Volume                                0 to 7Fh 7Fh
3708h    Equalizer Low cutoff freq  0=0Hz, 7Fh=4.7 kHz 0Ch
3709h   Equalizer Med Low cutoff freq 0=0Hz, 7Fh=4.2 kHz 1Bh
370Ah  Equalizer Med High cutoff freq 0=0Hz, 7Fh=4.2 kHz 72h
370Bh Equalizer High cutoff freq               0=0Hz, 7Fh=18.75 kHz 40h
3713h Clipping mode select                       0=soft clip, 7Fh=hard clip 00h
3715h General MIDI reverb send              0=no send,40h=default send,7Fh=max 40h
3716h General MIDI chorus send              0=no send,40h=default send,7Fh=max 40h
3718h Post effects applied on GM             0= Post effects not applied (1)
7Fh=Post effects applied (1)
7Fh
3719h Post effects applied on Mike    0= Post effects not applied (1)
7Fh=Post effects applied (1)
## 00h
371Ah Post effects applied on Reverb/Chorus    0= Post effects not applied (1)
7Fh=Post effects applied (1)
7Fh
3720h Spatial Effect volume (2)                0= no effect, 7Fh= maximum effect 00h
3722h General MIDI volume  0 to 7Fh 7Fh
3723h General MIDI pan  0=left, 40h=center, 7Fh=right 40h
3724h Mike volume                0 to 7Fh 40h
3726h Mike pan                0=left, 40h=center, 7Fh=right 40h
3728h Mike Echo level                 0 to 7Fh 7Fh
3729h Mike Echo time                  0=shortest to 7Fh=longest (380ms) 2Bh
372Ah Mike Echo feedback               0=no feedback  to 7Fh=maximum feedback 42h
372Ch Spatial Effect delay (2)  0=shortest to 7Fh=longest 1Dh
372Dh Spatial Effect input (2)  0=stereo 7Fh=mono 00h
3730h Slave1 Echo volume right               0 to7Fh (see appendix) 00h
3731h Slave1 Echo volume left                 0 to7Fh (see appendix) 00h
3732h Slave2 Echo volume right               0 to7Fh (see appendix) 00h
3733h Slave2 Echo volume left                 0 to7Fh (see appendix) 00h


## 16
## SAM2695
3734h Master Echo volume right               0 to7Fh (see appendix) 7Fh
3735h Master Echo volume left                 0 to7Fh (see appendix) 7Fh
3751h Auto - test                                       See section 7
3757h System Exclusive Device ID          0 to 1Fh, 20h=all accepted 20h
375Fh Effect ON/OFF – Polyphony Select. See section 5


## Notes:
(1)  Post effects are Spatial Effect + Equalizer
(2)  See Block diagram in Appendix


## SPECIAL MIDI MESSAGES DETAILS
## SYSTEM MESSAGES

## NRPN        #
(High|Low)
CONTROL NAME Parameters   (Data) Action
3707h MASTER_VOL Data (byte 0-7Fh,7Fh) Master volume

## - MASTER_VOL:
Master volume.
Data range : 0-7Fh. Default=7Fh.

## MIDI MESSAGES

## NRPN        #
(High|Low)
CONTROL NAME Parameters   (Data) Action
3722h GM_VOL -Data(byte 0-7Fh,7Fh) General MIDI volume
3723h GM_PAN -Data(byte 0-7Fh,40h) General MIDI pan

## - GM_VOL
Range 0-7Fh, linear scale.
Default value:   GM_VOL=07Fh
## - GM_PAN
0=hard left, 40h=center, 7Fh=hard right.
Same as GM system exclusive message « 40h 00h 06h »
Default value:   GM_PAN=40h

## SPATIAL EFFECT DEVICE
See Block diagram in Appendix.

## NRPN        #
(High|Low)
CONTROL NAME Parameters   (Data) Action
3720h SUR_VOL -Data(byte 0-7Fh,0) Spatial Effect volume
372Ch SUR_DEL -Data(byte 0-7Fh,1Dh) Spatial Effect delay
372Dh SUR_INP -Data(byte 0/7Fh,0) Input mono/stereo select for Spatial Effect

- SUR_VOL:  Spatial Effect volume.
## Default=0
- SUR_DEL:  Delay time
Default=1Dh
- SUR_INP:  Input type select
0 Stereo (default), Stereo wide,      Input to delay line is left - right.
7Fh Mono, Pseudo stereo      Input to delay line is left + right.


## 17
## SAM2695


## ROUTING MESSAGES

## NRPN        #
(High|Low)
CONTROL NAME Parameters   (Data) Action
3718h GM_POST -Data(byte 0/7Fh,7Fh) Post effects applied on General MIDI
3719h MIKECH_POST -Data(byte 0/7Fh,00h) Post effects applied on Mike and Echo
371Ah EFF_POST -Data(byte 0/7Fh,7Fh) Post effects applied on Reverb-chorus

- xxx_POST:
Post effects are Spatial Effect and Equalizer.
Post effects can be separately applied on each module. However general settings of post effects (EQ_xxx,
EQF_xxx, EQU_TYPE, SUR_VOL, SUR_DEL, SUR_INP) are common for all modules.
Data = 00h: post effects not applied on module.
Data = 7Fh: post effects applied on module.
## MIKE & ECHO DEVICE
For these controls being effective, Mike and Echo must first be set ON using nrpn 375Fh.

## NRPN #
(High|Low)
## CONTROL
## NAME
Parameters   (Data) Action
3724h MIKE_VOL -Data(byte 0-7Fh,40h) Mike volume
3726h MIKE_PAN -Data(byte 0-7Fh,40h) Mike pan
3728h ECH_LEV -Data(byte 0-7Fh,7Fh) Echo level
3729h ECH_TIM -Data(byte 0-7Fh,2Bh) Echo time (max 7Fh  380ms)
372Ah ECH_FEED -Data(byte 0-7Fh,42h) Echo feedback
3734h ECHM_RIGHT -Data(byte0-7Fh,7Fh) Master Echo volume right
3735h ECHM_LEFT -Data(byte0-7Fh,7Fh) Master Echo volume left
3730h ECHS1_RIGHT -Data(byte0-7Fh,00h) Slave1 Echo volume right
3731h ECHS1_LEFT -Data(byte0-7Fh,00h) Slave1 Echo volume left
3732h ECHS2_RIGHT -Data(byte0-7Fh,00h) Slave2 Echo volume right
3733h ECHS2_LEFT -Data(byte0-7Fh,00h) Slave2 Echo volume left


- ECH_xxx :
Controls for echo applied on Mike input.
ECH_LEV: 0 to 07Fh (Default 7Fh)
ECH_TIM: 0 =shortest to 7Fh=longest (default 2Bh)
ECH_FEED: 0=no feedback, 7Fh=maximum feedback (default 42h)

- ECHx_LEFT, ECHx_RIGHT :
Pan Controls for echo.
Default  setting  of  Echo  is  a  stereophonic  triple  echo:  echo  is  heard  successively  in  left  speaker,  then  center,
then right speaker. These controls allow to change stereophonic position of each of the 3 echos (left, right and
center).
For example, for having only a monophonic echo located in center, send:
ECHS1_RIGHT=0, ECHS1_LEFT=0  (supress slave1 echo)
ECHS2_RIGHT=0, ECHS2_LEFT=0 (supress slave2 echo)
ECHM_RIGHT=7Fh, ECHM_LEFT=7Fh (main echo to maximum volume).
See also appendix 8-4 for details.




## 18
## SAM2695

## EQUALIZER DEVICE

## NRPN        #
(High|Low)
CONTROL NAME Parameters   (Data) Action
3700h EQ_LB -Level (byte 0-7Fh,60h)    Equalizer low band
3701h EQ_MLB -Level (byte 0-7Fh,40h)    Equalizer med low band
3702h EQ_MHB -Level (byte 0-7Fh,40h)    Equalizer med high band
3703h EQ_HB -Level (byte 0-7Fh,60h)    Equalizer high band
3708h EQF_LB -Data (byte 0-7Fh,0Ch)     Equalizer low band frequency
3709h EQF_MLB -Data (byte 0-7Fh,1Bh)     Equalizer med low band frequency
370Ah EQF_MHB -Data (byte 0-7Fh,72h) Equalizer med high band frequency
370Bh EQF_HB -Data (byte 0-7Fh,40h) Equalizer high band frequency


EQ_xxx:                      Band level

00h            20h            40h            60h            7Fh
-12dB        -6dB        0dB        +6dB        +12dB
Default =60h (+6dB) for LB-HB, =40h(0dB) for MLB-MHB

EQF_xxx:                  Band frequency (0-7Fh), linear scale

## Band  Range  Default
LB  0-4.7Khz  0Ch
MLB  0-4.2Khz  1Bh
MHB  0-4.2Khz  72h
HB  0-18.75Khz  40h



## 19
## SAM2695

## 2-2-  CONTROLS
(received on parallel CONTROL register)

Controls are normally sent in parallel mode. Individual controls can also be sent on 8-bit port
in serial mode if preceded by control BEh.

## CONTROL MESSAGES OVERVIEW
A control message consists of one CONTROL byte followed by one DATA8 byte (parameter).

## Ctrl
## #
## Description
## Power-up
default
## Compatible
## NRPN/SYSEX
7h Master Volume                                 0 to FFh FFh  Nrpn 3707h
10h Equalizer low band left (bass)   0=-12dB, 40h=0dB, 7Fh=+12dB 60h  Nrpn 3700h
11h Equalizer med low band left  0=-12dB, 40h=0dB, 7Fh=+12dB 40h  Nrpn 3701h
12h Equalizer med high band left  0=-12dB, 40h=0dB, 7Fh=+12dB 40h  Nrpn 3702h
13h Equalizer high band left (treble)      0=-12dB, 40h=0dB, 7Fh=+12dB 60h Nrpn 3703h
14h Equalizer low band right (bass)  0=-12dB, 40h=0dB, 7Fh=+12dB 60h Nrpn 3700h
15h Equalizer med low band right  0=-12dB, 40h=0dB, 7Fh=+12dB 40h Nrpn 3701h
16h Equalizer med high band right  0=-12dB, 40h=0dB, 7Fh=+12dB 40h Nrpn 3702h
17h Equalizer high band right (treble)  0=-12dB, 40h=0dB, 7Fh=+12dB 60h Nrpn 3703h
18h Equalizer Low cutoff freq   0=0Hz, 7Fh=4.7 kHz 0Ch Nrpn 3708h
19h Equalizer Med Low cutoff freq  0=0Hz, 7Fh=4.2 kHz 1Bh Nrpn 3709h
1Ah Equalizer Med High cutoff freq  0=0Hz, 7Fh=4.2 kHz 72h Nrpn 370Ah
1Bh Equalizer High cutoff freq   0=0Hz, 7Fh=18.75 kHz 40h Nrpn 370Bh
1Ch Main Echo right volume                             0 to 7Fh 7Fh Nrpn 3734h
1Dh Main Echo left volume                               0 to 7Fh 7Fh Nrpn 3735h
25h General MIDI reverb send   0=no send,80h=default send,FFh=max 80h Nrpn 3715h
26h General MIDI chorus send        0=no send,80h=default send,FFh=max 80h Nrpn 3716h
28h Mike Echo level                                           0 to 7Fh 7Fh Nrpn 3728h
29h Mike Echo time                                            0 to 7Fh 2Bh Nrpn 3729h
2Ah Mike Echo feedback                                     0 to 7Fh 42H Nrpn 372Ah
2Bh Slave1 Echo right volume                                0 to 7Fh 00h Nrpn 3730h
2Ch Slave1 Echo left volume                                  0 to 7Fh 00h Nrpn 3731h
2Dh Slave2 Echo right volume                                0 to 7Fh 00h Nrpn 3732h
2Eh Slave2 Echo left volume                                  0 to 7Fh 00h Nrpn 3733h
30h Spatial Effect volume (2)                0= no effect, FFh= maximum effect 00h Nrpn 3720h
31h Spatial Effect delay (2)  0=shortest to 7Fh=longest 1Dh  Nrpn 372Ch
32h Spatial Effect input (2)  0=stereo 7Fh=mono 00h Nrpn 372Dh
34h Mike volume                                   0 to FFh 80h Nrpn 3724h
36h Mike pan                                         0=left, 40h=center, 7Fh=right 40h Nrpn 3726h
38h General MIDI volume  0 to FFh FFh Nrpn 3722h
39h General MIDI pan  0=left, 40h=center, 7Fh=right 40h Nrpn 3723h
3Ah Reverb general volume  0 to FFh (3) SysEx 40h 01h 33h
3Bh Chorus general  volume     0 to FFh (3) SysEx 40h 01h 3Ah
3Fh Switch to UART mode
62h Post effects applied on GM              0= Post effects not applied (1)
7Fh=Post effects applied (1)
7Fh           Nrpn           3718h
65h Post effects applied on Mike and Echo    0= Post effects not applied (1)
7Fh=Post effects applied (1)
## 00h           Nrpn           3719h
66h Post effects applied on Reverb/Chorus    0= Post effects not applied (1)
7Fh=Post effects applied (1)
7Fh           Nrpn           371Ah
69h Reverb program select   0 to 7h 04h SysEx 40h 01h 30h
6Ah Chorus program select   0 to 7h 02h SysEx 40h 01h 38h
74h Chorus delay (3) SysEx 40h 01h 3Ch
75h Chorus feedback (3) SysEx 40h 01h 3Bh


## 20
## SAM2695
76h Chorus rate (3) SysEx 40h 01h 3Dh
77h Chorus depth (3) SysEx 40h 01h 3Eh
78h Reverb time (3) SysEx 40h 01h 34h
79h Reverb feedback. Only if reverb number=6 or 7 (delays) (3) SysEx 40h 01h 35h
7Eh Clipping mode select                       0=soft clip, 7Fh=hard clip 00h Nrpn 3713h
BEh Enable Dream control in stand alone mode
FFh Reset UART mode
## Notes:
(1)  Post effects are Spatial Effect + Equalizer
(2)  See Block diagram in Appendix
(3)  See CONTROL MESSAGES DETAILS




## CONTROL MESSAGES DETAILS
## SYSTEM MESSAGES

## Ctrl
## #
## CONTROL
## NAME
Parameters   (Data) Action Answer
07h MASTER_VOL Data (byte 0-FFh,FFh) Master volume
BEh EN_CONTROL None Enable dream control in stand alone mode
FFh RESET None Reset UART mode
3Fh UART_MOD None Switch to UART mode Data= FEh

## - MASTER_VOL:
Master volume.
Data range : 0-FFh. Default=FFh.
## - EN_CONTROL:
This control has been implemented to enable to send any parallel control even in Serial mode.
It allows to send only one parallel control, which means that each control sent in serial mode should start with
EN_CONTROL control.
## - RESET:
Switch SAM2695 in serial mode
## - UART_MODE:
Switch SAM2695 in parallel mode



## 21
## SAM2695

## SPATIAL EFFECT DEVICE
See Block diagram in Appendix.

## Ctrl
## #
## CONTROL
## NAME
Parameters   (Data) Action Answer
30h SUR_VOL -Data(byte 0-FFh,0) Spatial Effect volume
31h SUR_DEL -Data(byte 0-7Fh,1Dh) Spatial Effect delay
32h SUR_INP -Data(byte 0/7Fh,0) Input mono/stereo select for Spatial Effect

- SUR_VOL:  Spatial Effect volume.
## Default=0
- SUR_DEL:  Delay time
Default=1Dh
- SUR_INP:  Input type select
0 Stereo (default), Stereo wide,      Input to delay line is left - right.
7Fh Mono, Pseudo stereo      Input to delay line is left + right.


## ROUTING MESSAGES

## Ctrl
## #
## CONTROL
## NAME
Parameters   (Data) Action Answer
62h GM_POST -Data(byte 0/7Fh,7Fh) Post effects applied on general MIDI
65h MIKECH_POST -Data(byte 0/7Fh,00h) Post effects applied on Mike and Echo
66h EFF_POST -Data(byte 0/7Fh,7Fh) Post effects applied on Reverb-chorus

- xxx_POST:
Post effects are Spatial Effect and Equalizer.
Post effects can be separately applied on each module. However general settings of post effects (EQ_xxx,
EQF_xxx, EQU_TYPE, SUR_VOL, SUR_DEL, SUR_INP) are common for all modules.
Data = 00h: post effects not applied on module.
Data = 7Fh: post effects applied on module.


## MIDI MESSAGES

## Ctrl
## #
## CONTROL
## NAME
Parameters   (Data) Action Answer
38h GM_VOL -Data(byte 0-FFh,FFh) General  MIDI volume
39h GM_PAN -Data(byte 0-7Fh,40h) General  MIDI pan

## - GM_VOL
Range 0-FFh, linear scale.
Default value:   GM_VOL=0FFh
## - GM_PAN
0=hard left, 40h=center, 7Fh=hard right.
Same as GM system exclusive message « 40h 00h 06h »
Default value:   GM_PAN=40h




## 22
## SAM2695

## MIKE & ECHO DEVICE
For these controls being effective, Mike and Echo must first be set ON using nrpn 375Fh.

## Ctrl
## #
## CONTROL
## NAME
Parameters   (Data) Action Answer
34h MIKE_VOL -Data(byte 0-FFh,80h) Mike volume
36h MIKE_PAN -Data(byte 0-7Fh,40h) Mike pan
28h ECH_LEV -Data(byte 0-7Fh,7Fh) Echo level applied on Mike
29h ECH_TIM -Data(byte 0-7Fh,2Bh) Echo time applied on Mike
2Ah ECH_FEED -Data(byte 0-7Fh,42h) Echo feedback applied on Mike
1Ch ECHM_RIGHT -Data(byte0-7Fh,7Fh) Main Echo volume right
1Dh ECHM_LEFT -Data(byte0-7Fh,7Fh) Main Echo volume left
2Bh ECHS1_RIGHT -Data(byte0-7Fh,00h) Slave1 Echo volume right
2Ch ECHS1_LEFT -Data(byte0-7Fh,00h) Slave1 Echo volume left
2Dh ECHS2_RIGHT -Data(byte0-7Fh,00h) Slave2 Echo volume right
2Eh ECHS2_LEFT -Data(byte0-7Fh,00h) Slave2 Echo volume left


- ECH_xxx:
Controls for echo applied on Mike input.
ECH_LEV: 0 to 07Fh (Default 7Fh)
ECH_TIM: 0 =shortest to 7Fh=longest (default 2Bh), longest 7Fh  380ms
ECH_FEED: 0=no feedback, 7Fh=maximum feedback (default 42h)

- ECHx_LEFT, ECHx_RIGHT:
Pan Controls for echo.
Default  setting  of  Echo  is  a  stereophonic  triple  echo  :  echo  is  heard  successively  in  left  speaker,  then  center,
then right speaker. These controls allow to change stereophonic position of each of the 3 echos (left, right and
center).
For example, for having only a monophonic echo located in center, send:
ECHS1_RIGHT=0, ECHS1_LEFT=0  (supress slave1 echo)
ECHS2_RIGHT=0, ECHS2_LEFT=0 (supress slave2 echo)
ECHM_RIGHT=7Fh, ECHM_LEFT=7Fh (main echo to maximum volume).
See also appendix 8-4 for details.




## 23
## SAM2695


## REVERB DEVICE

## Ctrl
## #
## CONTROL
## NAME
Parameters   (Data) Action Answer
69h REV_TYPE -Data(byte 0-7,4) Reverb program select
3Ah REV_VOL -Data(byte 0-FFh) Reverb general volume
78h REV_TIME -Data(byte 0-7Fh) Reverb time
79h REV_FEED -Data(byte 0-7Fh) Reverb feedback
25h GMREV_SEND -Data(byte 0-FFh,80h) General MIDI Reverb Send

- REV_TYPE:    Reverb program.
Same as GM system exclusive message « 40h 01h 30h » or control 80.
room1         room2         room3         hall1         hall2         plate         delay         pan         delay
0h               1h               2h               3h               4h               5h               6h               7h
## Default=4 (hall2)

REV_VOL:              Reverb       volume
Same as GM system exclusive message « 40h 01h 33h »
Default values:
room1         room2         room3         hall1         hall2         plate         delay         pan         delay
90h             90h             90h             C0h             90h             90h             FFh             FFh

- REV_TIME:     Reverb time.
Same as GM system exclusive message « 40h 01h 34h »
Default values:
room1         room2         room3         hall1         hall2         plate         delay         pan         delay
7Fh             7Fh             7Fh             7Fh             7Fh             7Fh             18h             7Fh

- REV_FEED:    Reverb delay feedback.
Only if reverb number=6 or 7 (delays)
This control is same as GM system exclusive message « 40h 01h 35h »
Default values:
delay        pan        delay
## 22h           26h

-GMREV_SEND: Modify reverb send level for General MIDI.
80h:       original reverb send levels of MIDI sequence not modified
0 to 7Fh:  original reverb send levels decreased
81h to FFh: original reverb send levels increased
## Default=80h


## 24
## SAM2695

## CHORUS DEVICE

## Ctrl
## #
## CONTROL
## NAME
Parameters   (Data) Action Answer
6Ah CHR_TYPE -Data(byte 0-7,2) Chorus program select
3Bh CHR_VOL -Data(byte 0-FFh) Chorus general volume
74h CHR_DEL -Data(byte 0-7Fh) Chorus delay
75h CHR_FEED -Data(byte 0-7Fh) Chorus feedback
76h CHR_RATE -Data(byte 0-7Fh) Chorus rate
77h CHR_DEPTH -Data(byte 0-7Fh) Chorus depth
26h GMCHR_SEND -Data(byte 0-FFh,80h) General MIDI Chorus Send


- CHR_TYPE: Chorus program.
Same as GM system exclusive message « 40h 01h 38h » or control 81.

chorus1          chorus2          chorus3          chorus4          FB          chorus  flanger short del FB delay
00h                01h                02h                03h                04h                05h                06h                  07h
## Default = 2 (chorus3)

- CHR_VOL:      Chorus Volume
Same as GM system exclusive message « 40h 01h 3Ah »

- CHR_DEL:      Chorus delay
Same as GM system exclusive message « 40h 01h 3Ch »

- CHR_FEED:    Chorus feedback
Same as GM system exclusive message « 40h 01h 3Bh »

- CHR_RATE:   Chorus rate
Same as GM system exclusive message « 40h 01h 3Dh »

- CHR_DEPTH: Chorus depth
Same as GM system exclusive message « 40h 01h 3Eh »

-GMCHR_SEND: Modify chorus send level for General MIDI.
Data = 80h: original chorus send levels of MIDI sequence not modified
Data = 00h to 7Fh: original chorus send levels decreased
Data = 81h to FFh: original chorus send levels increased
## Default = 80h

Default values:
chorus1       Chorus2       chorus3       chorus4       FB       chorus  flanger short del FB delay
CHR_VOL              90h              90h              90h              90h              90h              90h              FFh               FFh
CHR_DEL              4Bh              40h              40h              2Bh              7Fh              56h              7Fh               7Fh
CHR_FEED              00h              07h              09h              0Ch              48h              7Fh              00h               50h
CHR_RATE              03h              09h              03h              09h              02h              01h              00h               00h
CHR_DEPTH              05h              13h              13h              10h              0Ch              03h              00h               00h



## 25
## SAM2695
## EQUALIZER DEVICE

## Ctrl
## #
## CONTROL
## NAME
Parameters   (Data) Action Answer
10h EQ_LBL -Level (byte 0-7Fh,60h)    Equalizer low band left
11h EQ_MLBL -Level (byte 0-7Fh,40h)    Equalizer med low band left
12h EQ_MHBL -Level (byte 0-7Fh,40h)    Equalizer med high band left
13h EQ_HBL -Level (byte 0-7Fh,60h)    Equalizer high band left
14h EQ_LBR -Level (byte 0-7Fh,60h)    Equalizer low band right
15h EQ_MLBR -Level (byte 0-7Fh,40h)    Equalizer med low band right
16h EQ_MHBR -Level (byte 0-7Fh,40h)    Equalizer med high band right
17h EQ_HBR -Level (byte 0-7Fh,60h)    Equalizer high band right
18h EQF_LB -Data (byte 0-7Fh,0Ch)     Equalizer low band frequency
19h EQF_MLB -Data (byte 0-7Fh,1Bh)     Equalizer med low band frequency
1Ah EQF_MHB -Data (byte 0-7Fh,72h) Equalizer med high band frequency
1Bh EQF_HB -Data (byte 0-7Fh,40h) Equalizer high band frequency


EQ_xxx:                      Band level

00h            20h            40h            60h            7Fh
-12dB        -6dB        0dB        +6dB        +12dB
Default =60h (+6dB) for LB-HB, =40h(0dB) for MLB-MHB

EQF_xxx:                  Band frequency (0-7Fh), linear scale

## Band  Range  Default
LB  0-4.7Khz  0Ch
MLB  0-4.2Khz  1Bh
MHB  0-4.2Khz  72h
HB  0-18.75Khz  40h



## 26
## SAM2695
## 3- DETAILED MIDI IMPLEMENTATION

MIDI messages are received by the built-in wavetable synthesizer from:
   Serial MIDI IN pin serial mode
   8-bit parallel data port in parallel mode

## MIDI
## MESSAGE
## HEX CODE DESCRIPTION COMPATIBI
## -LITY
NOTE ON 9nh kk vv MIDI channel n(0-15) note ON #kk(1-127), velocity vv(1-127). vv=0
means NOTE OFF
## MIDI
NOTE OFF 8nh kk vv MIDI channel n(0-15) note OFF #kk(1-127),
vv is don’t care.
## MIDI
PITCH BEND Enh bl bh Pitch bend as specified by bh|bl (14 bits)
Maximum swing is +/- 1 tone (power-up). Can be changed using
« pitch bend sensitivity ». Center position is 00h 40h.
## GM
## PROGRAM
## CHANGE
Cnh pp Program (patch) change. Specific action on channel 10 (n=9) : select
drumset. Refer to sounds / drumset list. Drumsets can be assigned to
other channels (see SYSEX MIDI channel to part assign and part to
rhythm allocation)
## GM/GS
## CHANNEL
## AFTERTOUCH
Dnh vv vv pressure value. Effect set using Sys. Ex. 40h 2nh 20h-26h MIDI
MIDI RESET FFh Reset to power-up condition
CTRL 00 Bnh 00h cc Bank select : Refer to sounds list. No action on drumset.  GS
CTRL 01 Bnh 01h cc Modulation wheel. Rate and maximum depth can be set using SYSEX     MIDI
CTRL 05 Bnh 05h cc Portamento time.  MIDI
CTRL 06 Bnh 06h cc Data entry : provides data to RPN and NRPN MIDI
CTRL 07 Bnh 07h cc Volume (default=100) MIDI
CTRL 10 Bnh 0Ah cc Pan (default=64 center) MIDI
CTRL 11 Bnh 0Bh cc Expression (default=127) MIDI/GM
CTRL 64 Bnh 40h cc Sustain (damper) pedal MIDI
CTRL 65 Bnh 41h cc Portamento ON/OFF  MIDI
CTRL 66 Bnh 42h cc Sostenuto pedal MIDI
CTRL 67 Bnh 43h cc Soft pedal MIDI
CTRL 80 Bnh 50h vv  Reverb program vv=00h to 07h (default 04h)

00h:                  Room1                                    01h:                  Room2
02h:                  Room3                                    03h:                  hall1
04h:                  Hall2                                                      05h:                  Plate
06h: Delay  07h: Pan delay

## DREAM
CTRL 81 Bnh 51h vv Chorus program vv=00h to 07h (default 02h)

## 00h: Chorus1 01h: Chorus2
## 02h: Chorus3 03h: Chorus4
## 04h: Feedback 05h: Flanger
06h: Short delay 07h: FB delay

## DREAM
CTRL 91 Bnh 5Bh vv Reverb send level vv=00h to 7Fh GS
CTRL 93 Bnh 5Dh vv Chorus send level vv=00h to 7Fh GS
CTRL 120 Bnh 78h 00h All sound off (abrupt stop of sound on channel n) MIDI
CTRL 121 Bnh 79h 00h Reset all controllers MIDI
CTRL 123 Bnh 7Bh 00h All notes off MIDI
CTRL 126 Bnh 7Eh 00h Mono on  MIDI
CTRL 127 Bnh 7Fh 00h Poly on (default power-up) MIDI
CTRL CC1 Bnh cch vvh Assignable Controller 1. cc=Controller number (0-5Fh), vv=Control
value (0-7Fh). Control number (cch) can be set on CC1
CONTROLLER NUMBER (Sys. Ex 40 1x 1F). The resulting effect is
determined by CC1 controller function (Sys.Ex. 40 2x 40-4A)
## GS


## 27
## SAM2695

## MIDI
## MESSAGE
## HEX CODE DESCRIPTION COMPATIBI
## -LITY
CTRL CC2 Bnh cch vvh Assignable Controller 2. cc=Controller number (00h-5Fh), vv=control
value (0-7Fh). Control number can be set on CC2 CONTROLLER
NUMBER (Sys.Ex. 40 1x 20). The resulting effect is determined by
CC2 controller function (Sys.Ex.40 2x 50-5A).
## GS
RPN 0000h Bnh 65h 00h 64h 00h 06h vv Pitch bend sensitivity in semitones (default=2) MIDI/GM
RPN 0001h  Bnh 65h 00h 64h 01h 06h vv Fine tuning in cents (vv=00 -100,  vv=40h 0, vv=7Fh +100 MIDI
RPN 0002h Bnh 65h 00h 64h 02h 06h vv Coarse tuning in half-tones (vv=00 -64, vv=40h 0, vv=7Fh +64 MIDI
NRPN 0108h Bnh 63h 01h 62h 08h 06h vv Vibrate rate modify (vv=40h -> no modif) GS
NRPN 0109h Bnh 63h 01h 62h 09h 06h vv Vibrate depth modify (vv=40h -> no modif) GS
NRPN 010Ah BnN 63h 01h 62h 0Ah 06h vv Vibrate delay modify (vv=40h -> no modif) GS
NRPN 0120h Bnh 63h 01h 62h 20h 06h vv TVF cutoff freq modify(vv=40h -> no modif) GS
NRPN 0121h Bnh 63h 01h 62h 21h 06h vv TVF resonance modify (vv=40h -> no modif) GS
NRPN 0163h Bnh 63h 01h 62h 63h 06h vv Env. attack time modify(vv=40h ->no modif) GS
NRPN 0164h Bnh 63h 01h 62h 64h 06h vv Env. decay time modify(vv=40h -> no modif) GS
NRPN 0166h Bnh 63h 01h 62h 66h 06h vv Env. release time modif(vv=40h ->no modif) GS
NRPN 18rrh Bnh 63h 18h 62h rr 06h vv Pitch coarse of drum instr. note rr in semitones (vv=40h -> no modif) GS
NRPN 1Arrh Bnh 63h 1Ah 62h rr 06h vv Level of drum instrument note rr (vv=00 to 7Fh) GS
NRPN 1Crrh Bnh 63h 1Ch 62h rr 06h vv Pan of drum instrument note rr (40h = middle) GS
NRPN 1Drrh Bnh 63h 1Dh 62h rr 06h vv Reverb send level of drum instrument note rr (vv=00 to 7Fh) GS
NRPN 1Errh Bnh 63h 1Eh 62h rr 06h vv Chorus send level of drum instrument note rr
(vv=00 to 7Fh)
## GS
NRPN 37xxh Bnh 63h 37h 62h xx 06h vv Special Synthesis features controls (see §2-1) DREAM
SYSEX F0h 00h 20h 00h 00h 00h 12h 33h 77h pp
vv3 vv2 vv1 vv0 xx F7h
Write into port pp 16-bit value (see § 6) :
-pp=port number (0 to 7Fh)
- vv=16-bit value nibble  (0 to Fh)
(vv3=highest nibble to vv0=lowest nibble)
## DREAM
Standard Sysex F0h 7Eh 7Fh 09h 01h F7h General MIDI reset GM
Standard Sysex F0h 7Fh 7Fh 04h 01h 00h ll F7h Master volume (ll=0 to 127, default 127)  GM
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 00h 00h dd dd dd
dd xx F7h
Master tune (default dd= 00h 04h 00h 00h) -100.0 to +100.0 cents.
Nibblized data should be used (always four bytes). For example, to
tune to +100.0 cents, sent data should be 00h 07h 0Eh 08h
## GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 00h 04h vv xx
## F7h
Master volume (default vv=7Fh) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 00h 05h vv xx
## F7h
Master key-shift (default vv=40h, no transpose) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 00h 06h vv xx
## F7h
Master pan (default vv=40h, center)
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 00h 7Fh 00h xx
## F7h
GS reset GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40 01h 10h vv1 vv2
vv3 vv4 vv5 vv6 vv7 vv8 vv9 vv10 vv11
vv12 vv13 vv14 vv15 vv16 xx F7h


Voice reserve:
vv1= Part 10 (Default vv=2)
vv2 to vv10 = Part 1 to 9 (Default vv=2)
vv11 to vv16= Part 11 to 16 (Default vv=0)
## GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 01h 30h vv xx
## F7h
Reverb type (vv=0 to 7), default = 04h

00h:                  Room1                                    01h:                  Room2
02h:                  Room3                                    03h:                  Hall1
04h:                  Hall2                                                      05h:                  Plate
06h: Delay  07h: Pan delay

## GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 01h 31h vv xx
## F7h
Reverb character, default 04h GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 01h 33h vv xx
## F7h
Reverb master level GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 01h 34h vv xx
## F7h
Reverb time GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 01h 35h vv xx
## F7h
Reverb delay feedback. Only if reverb number=6 or 7 (delays) GS


## 28
## SAM2695

## MIDI
## MESSAGE
## HEX CODE DESCRIPTION COMPATIBI
## -LITY
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 01h 38h vv xx
## F7h
Chorus type (vv=0 to 7), default = 02h

## 00h: Chorus1 01h: Chorus2
## 02h: Chorus3 03h: Chorus4
## 04h: Feedback 05h: Flanger
06h: Short delay 07h: FB delay

## GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 01h 3Ah vv xx
## F7h
Chorus master level GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 01h 3Bh vv xx
## F7h
Chorus feedback GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 01h 3Ch vv xx
## F7h
Chorus delay GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 01h 3Dh vv xx
## F7h
Chorus rate GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 01h 3Eh vv xx
## F7h
Chorus depth GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 1ph 02h nn xx
## F7h
MIDI channel to part assign, p is part (0 to 15), nn is MIDI channel (0
to 15, 16=OFF).
This SYSEX allows to assign several parts to a single MIDI channel
or to mute a part.

Default assignment:
part            MIDI            channel
## 0                9                (DRUMS)
## 1-9   0-8
## 10-15        10-15

## GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 1ph 15h vv xx
## F7h
Part to rhythm allocation, p is part (0 to 15), vv is 00 (sound part) or
01 (rhythm part).
This SYSEX allows a part to play sound or drumset. There is no
limitation of the number of parts playing drumset.
Default assignment : part 0 plays drums (default MIDI channel 9) all
other parts play sound.
## GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 1ph 40h v1 v2 ...
v12 xx F7h
Scale tuning, n is MIDI channel (0 to 15), v1 to v12 are 12 semi-tones
tuning values (C, C#, D, ... A#, B), in the range -64 (00h)
0 (40h) +63(7Fh) cents.
This SYSEX allows non chromatic tuning of the musical scale on a
given MIDI channel.
Default v1, v2, ... ,v12 = 40h, 40h,...,40h (chromatic tuning).
Scale tuning has no effect if the part is assigned to a rhythm channel or
if the sound played is not of chromatic type.
## GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 1ph 1Ah vv xx
## F7h
Velocity slope from 00h to 7Fh (default = 40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 1ph 1Bh vv xx
## F7h
Velocity offset from 00h to 7Fh (default = 40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 1ph 1Fh vv xx
## F7h
CC1 Controller number (00-5Fh) (default = 10h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 1ph 20h vv xx
## F7h
CC2 Controller number (00-5Fh) (default = 11h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 00h vv xx
## F7h
Mod pitch control (-24,+24 semitone) (default = 40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 01h vv xx
## F7h
Mod tvf cutoff  control  (default = 40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 02h vv xx
## F7h
Mod Amplitude control (-100%-+100%) (default=40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 03h vv xx
## F7h
Mod lfo1 rate control  (default = 40h). n is don’t care. Rate is common
on all channels
## GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 04h vv xx
## F7h
Mod lfo1 pitch depth  (0-600 cents)  (default=0Ah) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 05h vv xx
## F7h
Mod lfo1 tvf depth (default = 00h) GS


## 29
## SAM2695

## MIDI
## MESSAGE
## HEX CODE DESCRIPTION COMPATIBI
## -LITY
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 06h vv xx
## F7h
Mod lfo1 tva depth (0-100%)  (default = 00h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 10h vv xx
## F7h
Bend pitch control (-24,+24 semitone) (default = 42h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 11h vv xx
## F7h
Bend tvf cutoff  control  (default = 40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 12h vv xx
## F7h
Bend Amplitude control (-100%-+100%) (default=40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 14h vv xx
## F7h
Bend lfo1 pitch depth  (0-600 cents)  (default=00h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 15h vv xx
## F7h
Bend lfo1 tvf depth (default = 00h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 16h vv xx
## F7h
Bend lfo1 tva depth (0-100%)  (default = 0h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 20h vv xx
## F7h
CAF pitch control (-24,+24 semitone) (default = 40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 21h vv xx
## F7h
CAF tvf cutoff  control  (default = 40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 22h vv xx
## F7h
CAF Amplitude control (-100%-+100%) (default=40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 24h vv xx
## F7h
CAF lfo1 pitch depth  (0-600 cents)  (default=00h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 25h vv xx
## F7h
CAF lfo1 tvf depth (default = 00h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 26h vv xx
## F7h
CAF lfo1 tva depth (0-100%)  (default = 00h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 40h vv xx
## F7h
CC1 pitch control (-24,+24 semitone) (default = 40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 41h vv xx
## F7h
CC1 tvf cutoff  control  (default = 40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 42h vv xx
## F7h
CC1 Amplitude control (-100%-+100%) (default=40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 44h vv xx
## F7h
CC1 lfo1 pitch depth  (0-600 cents)  (default=00h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 45h vv xx
## F7h
CC1 lfo1 tvf depth (default = 00h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 46h vv xx
## F7h
CC1 lfo1 tva depth (0-100%)  (default = 00h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 50h vv xx
## F7h
CC2 pitch control (-24,+24 semitone) (default = 40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 51h vv xx
## F7h
CC2 tvf cutoff  control  (default = 40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 52h vv xx
## F7h
CC2 Amplitude control (-100%-+100%) (default=40h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 54h vv xx
## F7h
CC2 lfo1 pitch depth  (0-600 cents)  (default=00h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 55h vv xx
## F7h
CC2 lfo1 tvf depth (default = 00h) GS
SYSEX F0h 41h 00h 42h 12h 40h 2ph 56h vv xx
## F7h
CC2 lfo1 tva depth (0-100%)  (default = 00h) GS

## Notes:

NRPN sending method: CTRL#99=high byte, CTRL#98=low byte, CTRL#6=vv
Example: NRPN 0108h = 40h -> CTRL#99=1, CTRL#98=8, CTRL#6=64

x or xx means « don’t care »



## 30
## SAM2695

## 4- SOUNDS


## 4-1- MAIN SOUNDS - GENERAL MIDI
(all channels except 10)

PC: Program change


PC    GENERAL    MIDI        PC    GENERAL    MIDI    PC    GENERAL    MIDI        PC    GENERAL    MIDI
## 1
(Grand) Piano 1
## 33
## Acoustic Bass
## 65
## Soprano Sax
## 97
FX 1 (rain)
## 2
(Bright) Piano 2
## 34
## Finger Bass
## 66
## Alto Sax
## 98
FX 2 (soundtrack)
## 3
(El. Grd) Piano 3
## 35
## Picked Bass
## 67
## Tenor Sax
## 99
FX 3 (crystal)
## 4
## Honky-tonk Piano
## 36
## Fretless Bass
## 68
## Baritone Sax
## 100
FX4 (atmosphere)
## 5
## El. Piano 1
## 37
## Slap Bass 1
## 69
## Oboe
## 101
FX 5 (brightness)
## 6
## El. Piano 2
## 38
## Slap Bass 2
## 70
## English Horn
## 102
FX 6 (goblins)
## 7
## Harpsichord
## 39
## Synth Bass 1
## 71
## Bassoon
## 103
FX 7 (echoes)
## 8
## Clavi
## 40
## Synth Bass 2
## 72
## Clarinet
## 104
FX 8 (sci-fi)
## 9
## Celesta
## 41
## Violin
## 73
## Piccolo
## 105
## Sitar
## 10
## Glockenspiel
## 42
## Viola
## 74
## Flute
## 106
## Banjo
## 11
## Music Box
## 43
## Cello
## 75
## Recorder
## 107
## Shamisen
## 12
## Vibraphone
## 44
## Contrabass
## 76
## Pan Flute
## 108
## Koto
## 13
## Marimba
## 45
## Tremolo Strings
## 77
## Blown Bottle
## 109
## Kalimba
## 14
## Xylophone
## 46
## Pizzicato Strings
## 78
## Shakuhachi
## 110
Bag pipe
## 15
## Tubular Bells
## 47
## Orchestral Harp
## 79
## Whistle
## 111
## Fiddle
## 16
## Santur
## 48
## Timpani
## 80
## Ocarina
## 112
## Shanai
## 17
## Drawbar Organ
## 49
## String Ensemble 1
## 81
## Lead 1 (square)
## 113
## Tinkle Bell
## 18
## Percussive Organ
## 50
## String Ensemble 2
## 82
## Lead 2 (sawtooth)
## 114
## Agogo
## 19
## Rock Organ
## 51
## Synth Strings 1
## 83
## Lead 3 (calliope)
## 115
## Steel Drums
## 20
## Church Organ
## 52
## Synth Strings 2
## 84
## Lead 4 (chiff)
## 116
## Woodblock
## 21
## Reed Organ
## 53
## Choir Aahs
## 85
## Lead 5 (charang)
## 117
## Taiko Drum
## 22
## Accordion (french)
## 54
## Voice Oohs
## 86
## Lead 6 (voice)
## 118
## Melodic Tom
## 23
## Harmonica
## 55
## Synth Voice
## 87
## Lead 7 (fifths)
## 119
## Synth Drum
## 24
## Tango Accordion
## 56
## Orchestra Hit
## 88
## Lead8 (bass+lead)
## 120
## Reverse Cymbal
## 25
## Ac. Guitar (nylon)
## 57
## Trumpet
## 89
## Pad 1 (fantasia)
## 121
## Gt. Fret Noise
## 26
## Ac. Guitar (steel)
## 58
## Trombone
## 90
## Pad 2 (warm)
## 122
## Breath Noise
## 27
## El. Guitar (jazz)
## 59
## Tuba
## 91
## Pad 3 (polysynth)
## 123
## Seashore
## 28
## El. Guitar (clean)
## 60
## Muted Trumpet
## 92
## Pad 4 (choir)
## 124
## Bird Tweet
## 29
## El. Guitar (muted)
## 61
## French Horn
## 93
## Pad 5 (bowed)
## 125
## Teleph. Ring
## 30
## Overdriven Guitar
## 62
## Brass Section
## 94
## Pad 6 (metallic)
## 126
## Helicopter
## 31
## Distortion Guitar
## 63
## Synth Brass 1
## 95
## Pad 7 (halo)
## 127
## Applause
## 32
Guitar harmonics
## 64
## Synth Brass 2
## 96
## Pad 8 (sweep)
## 128
## Gunshot




## 31
## SAM2695




## 4-2- MT-32 SOUND VARIATION #127
(all channels except 10)

To select variation: send CTRL 0 = 127, then PC

PC: Program change
C0: controller 0 value (zero for General MIDI capital sounds)

PC#   Instrument   name    PC#   Instrument   name   PC#   Instrument   name    PC#   Instrument   name

1 Piano 1 2 Piano 2 3 Piano 3 4 Detuned EP 1
5        E.Piano1        6        E.Piano2        7        Detuned        EP2         8        Honky-Tonk
## 9 Organ 1 10 Organ 2 11 Organ 3 12 Detuned Or. 1
## 13 Church Org. 2 14 Church Org. 15 Church Org. 16 Accordion Fr.
17      Harpsichord      18      Coupled      Hps.         19      Coupled      Hps.         20      Clav.
## 21      Clav.      22      Clav.      23      Celesta      24      Celesta
25      Synth      Brass1         26      Synth      Brass2      27      Synth      Brass3         28      Synth      Brass4
29      Synth      Bass1      30      Synth      Bass2      31      Synth      Bass3      32      Synth      Bass4
33      Fantasia      34      Syn      Calliope      35      Choir      Aahs      36      Bowed      Glass
37      Soundtrack      38      Atmosphere      39      Crystal      40      Bag      Pipe
41      Tinkle      Bell      42      Ice      Rain      43      Oboe      44      Pan      Flute
45      Saw      Wave      46      Charang      47      Tubular      Bells         48      Square      Wave
49      Strings      50      Tremolo      Str.      51      Slow      Strings      52      Pizzicato      Str.
## 53      Violin      54      Viola      55      Cello      56      Cello
57      Contrabass      58      Harp      59      Harp      60      Nylon-str.      Gt
61      Steel-Str.      Gt      62      Chorus      Gt.      63      Funk      Gt.      64      Sitar
65      Acoustic      Bs.      66      Fingered      Bs.      67      Picked      Bs.      68      Fretless      Bs.
## 69 Slap Bs. 1 70 Slap Bs. 2 71 Fretless Bs. 72 Fretless Bs.
## 73      Flute      74      Flute      75      Piccolo      76      Piccolo
77      Recorder      78      Pan      Flute      79      Soprano      Sax          80      Alto      Sax
81      Tenor      Sax      82      Baritone      Sax          83      Clarinet      84      Clarinet
85      Oboe      86      English      Horn          87      Bassoon      88      Harmonica
89      Trumped      90      Muted      Trumpet      91      Trombone      92      Trombone
93      French      Horn      94      French      Horn      95      Tuba      96      Brass
97      Brass      2      98      Vibraphone      99      Vibraphone      100      Kalimba
101    Tinkle    Bell    102    Glockenspiel    103    Tubular-Bell    104    Xylophone
## 105    Marimba    106    Koto    107    Taisho    Koto    108    Shakuhachi
109    Whistle    110    Whistle    111    Bottle    Blow    112    Pan    Flute
113    Timpani    114    Melo    Tom    115    Melo    Tom    116    Synth    Drum
## 117    Synth    Drum    118    Taiko    119    Taiko    120    Reverse    Cym.
121    Castanets    122    Tinkle    Bell    123    Orchestra    Hit    124    Telephone
## 125    Bird    126    Helicopter    127    Bowed    Glass    128    Ice    Rain



## 32
## SAM2695

## 4-3- DRUM SET TABLE (MIDI CHANNEL 10)



## Prog 1:
## STANDARD SET
## Prog 17:
## POWER SET
## Prog 41:
## BRUSH
## Prog 49:
## ORCHESTRA
## Prog 128:
CM -64/32 (Partial)
27 - D#1    Closed Hi Hat [EXC1]    *
28 - E1    Pedal Hi-Hat [EXC1] *
29 - F1    Open Hi Hat [EXC1] *
30                                       -                                       F#1                                                                                                                                                            Ride                                       Cymbal                                       *
31                                       -                                       G1
## *
32                                       -                                       G#1
## *
33                                       -                                       A1
## *
34                                       -                                       A#1
## *
35 - B1 Kick drum2  Jazz BD 2  Kick drum
36 - C2 Kick drum1  Jazz BD 1  Kick drum
## 37 - C#2 Side Stick    Rim Shot
## 38 - D2 Snare Drum 1 Gated Snare Brush Tap Snare Drum 2 Snare Drum
## 39 - D#2 Hand Clap  Brush Slap Castanets Hand Clap
## 40 - E2 Snare Drum 2  Brush Swirl Snare Drum 2 Elec Snare Drum
## 41 - F2 Low Floor Tom   Timpani F Acoustic Low Tom
42 - F#2 Closed Hi Hat [EXC1]      Timpani F# Closed Hi-Hat [Exc1]
## 43 - G2 High Floor Tom   Timpani G Acoustic Low Tom
44 - G#2 Pedal Hi-Hat [EXC1]   Timpani G# Open Hi-Hat 2
## 45 - A2 Low Tom   Timpani A Acoustic Middle Tom
46 - A#2 Open Hi-Hat [EXC1]   Timpani A# Open Hi-Hat 1 [Exc1]
47 - B2 Low-Mid Tom   Timpani B Acoustic Middle Tom
48 - C3 Hi Mid Tom   Timpani c Acoustic High Tom
49 - C#3 Crash Cymbal 1   Timpani c# Crash Cymbal
50 - D3 High Tom   Timpani d Acoustic High Tom
51 - D#3 Ride Cymbal 1    Timpani d# Ride Cymbal
52 - E3 Chinese Cymbal   Timpani e *
53 - F3 Ride Bell    Timpani f *
54                                       -                                       F#3                                       Tambourine                                                                                                                                                            Tambourine
## 55 - G3 Splash Cymbal    *
56                                       -                                       G#3                                       Cowbell                                                                                                                                                            Cowbell
## 57 - A3 Crash Cymbal 2    *
58                                       -                                       A#3                                       Vibraslap                                                                                                                                                            *
## 59 - B3 Ride Cymbal 2    *
## 60 - C4 Hi Bongo
## 61 - C#4 Low Bongo
## 62 - D4 Mute Hi Conga
## 63 - D#4 Open Hi Conga
## 64 - E4 Low Conga
## 65 - F4 High Timbale
## 66 - F#4 Low Timbale
## 67 - G4 High Agogo
## 68 - G#4 Low Agogo
69                                       -                                       A4                                       Cabasa
70                                       -                                       A#4                                       Maracas
71 - B4 Short Whistle[EXC2]
72 - C5 Long Whistle[EXC2]
73 - C#5 Short Guiro [EXC3]    Vibra Slap
74 - D5 Long Guiro [EXC3]    *
75                                       -                                       D#5                                       Claves                                                                                                                                                            Claves
## 76 - E5 Hi Wood Block    *
## 77 - F5 Low Wood Block    *
78 - F#5 Mute Cuica [EXC4]    *
79 - G5 Open Cuica [EXC4]    *
80 - G#5 Mute Triangle [EXC5]        *
81 - A5 Open Triangle[EXC5]        *
82                                       -                                       A#5                                                                                                                                                                                                   Applauses
## 83 - B5     *
(To be continued)


## 33
## SAM2695
(Continued)


## Prog 1:
## STANDARD SET
## Prog 17:
## POWER SET
## Prog 41:
## BRUSH
## Prog 49:
## ORCHESTRA
## Prog 127:
CM -64/32 (Partial)
## 84 - C6     *
85                                       -                                       C#6                                                                                                                                                                                                   *
## 86 - D6     *
87                                       -                                       D#6                                                                                                                                                                                                   *
88                                       -                                       E6                                                                                                                                                            Applauses                                       *
## 89 - F6     *
90                                       -                                       f#6                                                                                                                                                                                                   *
## 91 - G6     *
92                                       -                                       G#6                                                                                                                                                                                                   *
## 93 - A6     *
94                                       -                                       A#6                                                                                                                                                                                                   Helicopter
## 95 - B6     *
96                                       -                                       C7                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gun                                       Shot
97                                       -                                       C#7                                                                                                                                                                                                   *
## 98 - D7     *
99                                       -                                       D#7                                                                                                                                                                                                   *
100                                       -                                       E7                                                                                                                                                                                                   *
101                                       -                                       F7                                                                                                                                                                                                   *
102                                       -                                       F#7                                                                                                                                                                                                   Birds
103                                       -                                       G7                                                                                                                                                                                                   *
104                                       -                                       g#7                                                                                                                                                                                                   *
105                                       -                                       A7                                                                                                                                                                                                   *
106                                       -                                       A#7                                                                                                                                                                                                   SeaShore

## Notes:
*:          No          sound
Blank:   Same sound as "Standard Set"
[EXC]:   Sounds with same EXC number are mutually exclusive



## 34
## SAM2695

5- NRPN 0375Fh: Effect on/off – Polyphony selection


Midi message code (in hexadecimal): B0h 63h 37h, B0h 62h 5Fh, B0h 06h vv
Each bit of vv byte is used for selecting an effect ON or OFF as following:

## 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0
## 0      ECH      REV      CHR      OM      MIC      EQ2      EQ1


Each time an effect is ON polyphony will be decreased.
In some configurations, polyphony is decreased by 1 for reason of internal mixing.

REV bit=1: Reverb ON, polyphony decreased by 13

CHR bit=1: Chorus ON, polyphony decreased by 3

MIC bit=1: Mike ON, polyphony decreased by 1

ECH bit=1: Mike Echo ON, polyphony decreased by 3

OM bit : output mode select:
- OM=0: Spatial effect  OFF
- OM=1: Spatial effect ON, polyphony decreased by 1. Spatial effect parameters can be controlled using
NRPN 3720h (volume), 372Ch (delay time) and 372Dh (stereo/mono). (See paragraph 2-1).

EQ2, EQ1 bits: Equalizer
- EQ2=0, EQ1=0: equalizer off
- EQ2=1, EQ1=0: 2 band equalizer, polyphony decreased by 4
- EQ2=1, EQ1=1: 4 band equalizer, polyphony decreased by 8



## 35
## SAM2695


The table below shows some possible NRPN 375F values with their impacts on polyphony.

## NRPN 375F
vv
## REV CH
## R
## Spatia
l
## Effect
## EQ MI
## C
## ECHPOL
## Y
## Comment
## [0000|0000] - 00h
## [0000|0010] - 02h
## [0000|0011] - 03h
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
2-Band
4-Band
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## 64
## 59
## 55
## Max Poly 64
## [0000|1000] - 08h
[0000|1010] - 0Ah
[0000|1011] - 0Bh
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## ON
## ON
## ON
## OFF
2-Band
4-Band
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## 62
## 58
## 54

[0000|1110] - 0Eh OFF     OFF ON 2-BandON OFF 57
## [0010|0000] - 20h
## [0010|0010] - 22h
## [0010|0011] - 23h
## ON
## ON
## ON
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
2-Band
4-Band
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## 50
## 46
## 42

## [0010|1000] - 28h
[0010|1010] - 2Ah
[0010|1011] - 2Bh
## ON
## ON
## ON
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## ON
## ON
## ON
## OFF
2-Band
4-Band
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## 49
## 45
## 41

## [0011|0000] - 30h
## [0011|0011] - 33h
## ON
## ON
## ON
## ON
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
4-Band
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## 48
## 39

[0011|0111] - 37h ON ON OFF 4-BandON OFF 38
[0011|1011] - 3Bh ON ON ON 4-
## Band
OFF    OFF38       Default
[0100|0101] - 45h ON ON ON 4-
## Band
OFF    OFF38       Reset       All
[0100|1110] - 4Eh OFF     OFF ON 2-BandON ON 55
## [0111|0100] - 74h
## [0111|0110] - 76h
## [0111|0111] - 77h
## ON
## ON
## ON
## ON
## ON
## ON
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
## OFF
2-Band
4-Band
## ON
## ON
## ON
## ON
## ON
## ON
## 44
## 40
## 36

[0111|1110] - 7Eh
[0111|1111] - 7Fh
## ON
## ON
## ON
## ON
## ON
## ON
2-Band
4-Band
## ON
## ON
## ON
## ON
## 39
## 35


Important note:
For compatibility with SAM2195, value 45h is reserved for "reset all".
Sending 45h is restoring the power-up status (Reverb/Chorus ON, Spatial Effect OFF, 4-Band EQ,
Mike/Echo OFF) and re-initializing all midi parameters to default.
The firmware will be stopped during reset procedure (about 50 ms), before being ready again to receive
MIDI messages.



## 36
## SAM2695

## 6- CODEC CONTROL SYSTEM EXCLUSIVE


A system exclusive is implemented for writing a 16-bit value in any internal port of SAM2695.

Midi message code (in hexadecimal):
F0h 00h 20h 00h 00h 00h 12h 33h 77h pp vv3 vv2 vv1 vv0 xx F7h
## With:
-pp=port number (0 to 7Fh)
- vv=4-bit nibble of 16-bit value (0 to Fh)
(vv3=highest 4-bit nibble to vv0=lowest 4-bit nibble)

For example, system exclusive:
F0h 00h 20h 00h 00h 00h 12h 33h 77h 56h 0Dh 03h 05h 0Ah xx F7h
writes in port 56h, value 0D35Ah.

It is not recommended to write in SAM2695 ports except in the 2 ports configuring the codec:
- port 18 (12h): Codec Control 0
- port 20 (14h): Codec Control 1




PORT ADDRESS 18 (12h): CODEC CONTROL 0

|                       |                       |                       |                       |
| 15  | 14  | 13  | 12  | 11  | 10  |  9  |  8  |  7  |  6  |  5  |  4  |  3  |  2  |  1  |  0  |
| ADC | IN  | ING5| ING4| ING3| ING2| ING1| ING0| DAC | DAC |OUTG5|OUTG4|OUTG3|OUTG2|OUTG1|OUTG0|
| MUTE| MUTE|     |     |     |     |     |     | MUTE| SEL |     |     |     |     |     |     |

|  Reset Default Value (1B79h)                                                                  |
|  0  |  0  |  0  |  1  |  1  |  0  |  1  |  1  |  0  |  1  |  1  |  1  |  1  |  0  |  0  |  1  |

Sytem exclusive restoring port 18 (12h) to default:
F0h 00h 20h 00h 00h 00h 12h 33h 77h 12h 01h 0Bh 07h 09h xx F7h


PORT ADDRESS 20 (14h): CODEC CONTROL 1

|                       |                       |                       |                       |
| 15  | 14  | 13  | 12  | 11  | 10  |  9  |  8  |  7  |  6  |  5  |  4  |  3  |  2  |  1  |  0  |
| HPF |MICBT| xxx |RSV12|RSV11|RSV10| RSV9| RSV8| RSV7| RSV6| RSV5| RSV4| RSV3| RSV2| RSV1| RSV0|
| Reset Default Value (077Dh)                                                                   |
|  0  |  0  | xxx |  0  |  0  |  1  |  1  |  1  |  0  |  1  |  1  |  1  |  1  |  1  |  0  |  1  |

This port is mainly used for controlling +20dB Mic Boost with bit 14 MICBT.
For setting Mic Boost ON, send system exclusive:

F0h 00h 20h 00h 00h 00h 12h 33h 77h 14h 04h 07h 07h 0Dh xx F7h
For restoring default Mic Boost OFF, send system exclusive:

F0h 00h 20h 00h 00h 00h 12h 33h 77h 14h 00h 07h 07h 0Dh xx F7h



## 37
## SAM2695

## CODEC CONTROL BIT DESCRIPTION

OUTG[5:0]: Audio output gain control. Adjust the DAC amplifier output in logarithmical steps from 6dB to -40dB
in steps of 1dB. Two additional gains, -43,5dB and -58,5dB are also available. Default value is 0dB.

OUTG5 OUTG4 OUTG3 OUTG2 OUTG1 OUTG0 Output Gain,
1                        1                        1                        1                        1                        1                        +6                        dB
1                        1                        1                        1                        1                        0                        +5                        dB
1                        1                        1                        1                        0                        1                        +4                        dB
1                        1                        1                        1                        0                        0                        +3                        dB
1                        1                        1                        0                        1                        1                        +2                        dB
1                        1                        1                        0                        1                        0                        +1                        dB
1 1 1 0 0 1 +0 dB
1                        1                        1                        0                        0                        0                        -1                        dB
1                        1                        0                        1                        1                        1                        -2                        dB
1                        1                        0                        1                        1                        0                        -3                        dB
1                        1                        0                        1                        0                        1                        -4                        dB
1                        1                        0                        1                        0                        0                        -5                        dB
1                        1                        0                        0                        1                        1                        -6                        dB
1                        1                        0                        0                        1                        0                        -7                        dB
1                        1                        0                        0                        0                        1                        -8                        dB
1                        1                        0                        0                        0                        0                        -9                        dB
.....                    .....                    .....                    .....                    .....                    .....                    .....
0                        1                        0                        0                        1                        1                        -38                        dB
0                        1                        0                        0                        1                        0                        -39                        dB
0                        1                        0                        0                        0                        1                        -40                        dB
0                        1                        0                        0                        0                        0                        -43.5                        dB
0                        0                        x                        x                        x                        x                        -58.5                        dB


DACSEL: Active DAC output audio path.
- 0: DAC output signal not routed to audio output. Audio output muted
- 1: DAC output signal routed to audio output (default)

DACMUTE: DAC system mute control
- 0: Disable DAC digital mute (default)
- 1: Enable DAC digital mute
## Note:
When using DACMUTE bit, be sure gain OUTG[5:0] <= 039h (output gain <= 0dB)
Using DACMUTE bit when OUTG[5:0] > 039h (output gain > 0dB) can generate big pop noise when DACMUTE
bit going from 1 to 0.



## 38
## SAM2695
ING[5:0]:  Audio  input  gain  control.  Adjust  the  IPGA  gain  in  the  ADC  signal  path  with  logarithmical  steps  from
+36dB to -27dB in steps of 1dB. Default value is 0dB.

ING5 ING4 ING3 ING2 ING1 ING0 Input Gain,
1                        1                        1                        1                        1                        1                        +36                        dB
1                        1                        1                        1                        1                        0                        +35                        dB
1                        1                        1                        1                        0                        1                        +34                        dB
1                        1                        1                        1                        0                        0                        +33                        dB
1                        1                        1                        0                        1                        1                        +32                        dB
1                        1                        1                        0                        1                        0                        +31                        dB
1                        1                        1                        0                        0                        1                        +30                        dB
1                        1                        1                        0                        0                        0                        +29                        dB
1                        1                        0                        1                        1                        1                        +28                        dB
1                        1                        0                        1                        1                        0                        +27                        dB
1                        1                        0                        1                        0                        1                        +26                        dB
1                        1                        0                        1                        0                        0                        +25                        dB
1                        1                        0                        0                        1                        1                        +24                        dB
1                        1                        0                        0                        1                        0                        +23                        dB
1                        1                        0                        0                        0                        1                        +22                        dB
1                        1                        0                        0                        0                        0                        +21                        dB
.....                    .....                    .....                    .....                    .....                    .....                    .....
0 1 1 0 1 1 0 dB
.....                    .....                    .....                    .....                    .....                    .....                    .....
0                        0                        1                        1                        1                        0                        -13                        dB
0                        0                        1                        1                        0                        1                        -14                        dB
0                        0                        1                        1                        0                        0                        -15                        dB
0                        0                        1                        0                        1                        1                        -16                        dB
0                        0                        1                        0                        1                        0                        -17                        dB
0                        0                        1                        0                        0                        1                        -18                        dB
0                        0                        1                        0                        0                        0                        -19                        dB
0                        0                        0                        1                        1                        1                        -20                        dB
0                        0                        0                        1                        1                        0                        -21                        dB
0                        0                        0                        1                        0                        1                        -22                        dB
0                        0                        0                        1                        0                        0                        -23                        dB
0                        0                        0                        0                        1                        1                        -24                        dB
0                        0                        0                        0                        1                        0                        -25                        dB
0                        0                        0                        0                        0                        1                        -26                        dB
0                        0                        0                        0                        0                        0                        -27                        dB


INMUTE: ADC microphone input mute
## - 0: Normal (default)
## -            1:            Muted

ADCMUTE: ADC system mute control
- 0: Disable ADC digital mute (default)
- 1: Enable ADC digital mute and ADC input mute

RSV[12:0]: Reserved for test. Do not change default setting.

MICBT: Microphone boost control. Add +20dB gain in ADC path
- 0: Mic Boost Off. 0dB (default).
- 1: Mic Boost On. +20dB.

HPF: ADC high-pass filter control
- 0: High-pass filter disabled (Default).
- 1: High-pass filter enabled.



## 39
## SAM2695
## CODEC BLOCK DIAGRAM

















































## SCF
## DAC
## DACSEL
## Digital
Sigma-Delta
## Modulator

## HPAMP
## Digital
## Interpolation
## Filter
## OUTG[5:0]
+6 to -40dB: 1dB/step
-43.5, -58.5dB
## VCM
buffer
## Digital
## Audio
## Interface
## SCF
## DAC
## Digital
Sigma-Delta
## Modulator

## HPAMP
## Digital
## Interpolation
## Filter
## OUTG[5:0]
## DACSEL
## Digital
## Audio
## Bus
## DACMUTE
## DACMUTE
## MICBT
## ING[5:0]
## MICBT
0/+20dB
## IPGA
+36 to -27dB: 1dB/step
## Sigma-
## Delta
## Modulator
## INMUTE
+6 to -40dB: 1dB/step
-43.5, -58.5dB
## Digital
## Decimation
## Filter
High-Pass
## Filter

## ADCMUTE
## HPF
## Voltage
## Reference
## VCMHPOUT
## AOUTR
## AOUTL
## MICIN
## VCM


## 40
## SAM2695

## 7- AUTO-TEST


A built-in auto-test program is included which can be used for board production testing.
To start auto-test, send NRPN 3751h = 23h

Sine waveforms at different frequencies will be output to the DAC to indicate the test in progress, as follows:

Test in progress Output frequency
On chip RAM 1.18 kHz
On chip ROM 876 Hz
PASS  295 Hz

If PASS frequency is detected, this means that part is OK.



## 41
## SAM2695

## 8- APPENDIX

## 8-1 INSTRUMENTS REQUIRING 2 VOICES (2 LAYER INSTRUMENT)


PC     Name
## 4
## Honky-tonk Piano
## 5
## El. Piano 1
## 6
## El. Piano 2
## 9
## Celesta
## 10
## Glockenspiel
## 11
## Music Box
## 15
## Tubular Bells
## 19
## Rock Organ
## 20
## Church Organ
## 22
## Accordion (french)
## 24
## Tango Accordion
## 31
## Distortion Guitar
## 37
## Slap Bass 1
## 40
## Synth Bass 2
## 52
## Synth Strings 2
## 54
## Voice Oohs
## 55
## Synth Voice
## 56
## Orchestra Hit
## 61
## French Horn
## 63
## Synth Brass 1
## 64
## Synth Brass 2
## 73
## Piccolo
## 77
## Blown Bottle
## 78
## Shakuhachi
## 79
## Whistle
## 80
## Ocarina
## 81
Lead 1 (square wave)
## 82
Lead 2 (saw wave)
## 83
## Lead 3 (calliope)
## 84
## Lead 4 (chiff)
## 85
## Lead 5 (charang)
## 86
## Lead 6 (voice)
## 87
## Lead 7 (fifths)
## 88
## Lead8 (bass+lead)
## 89
Pad 1 (new age)
## 91
## Pad 3 (polysynth)
## 92
## Pad 4 (choir)
## 93
## Pad 5 (bowed)
## 94
## Pad 6 (metallic)
## 95
## Pad 7 (halo)
## 97
FX 1 (rain)
## 98
FX 2 (soundtrack)
## 99
FX 3 (crystal)
## 100
FX4 (atmosphere)
## 101
FX 5 (brightness)
## 102
FX 6 (goblins)
## 104
FX 8 (sci-fi)
## 113
## Tinkle Bell
## 115
## Steel Drums
## 118
## Melodic Tom
## 127
## Applause



## 42
## SAM2695


## 8-2 SIGNAL PROCESSING SYNOPTIC















Main out
echo
reverb
chorus


## MIDI
## EQ 3D
## Output
Mono bus)
Stereo bus
## Echo
Re ve rb
## Chorus
Mik e
Ou t p u t S e l e c to r





## 8-3 SPATIAL EFFECT BLOCK DIAGRAM

















## Delay
## Volume
## Nrpn 3720h
## Delay
Nrpn 372Ch
## +


## +
## -
## Left
## In
## Input
Nrpn 372Dh
## Right
## In
## -1
## +
## +
## Left
## Right



## 43
## SAM2695



## 8-4 MICROPHONE ECHO STRUCTURE

Dream  echo  structure  includes  3  echos.  Main  one  is  the  master  echo:  master  echo  time  T  is  set  with
nrpn 3729h while feedback is set with nrpn 372Ah. Slave 1 and Slave 2 are 2 more echos delayed from
master echo.
## T2T0
## Slave1
## Master
## Slave2
## 3T
## T/3
## 2T/3

Slave1 is M aster - 2T/3

Slave2 is M aster - T/3

Volume of Master, Slave1 and Slave2 can be separately set using nrpn 3730h to 3735h. For example,
for having mono echo (preset 0), slave1 and slave2 must be muted. Left and right volumes can be set
independently for providing best stereo effect.
















## 45
## SAM2695



























































## Dream Contact
info@dream.fr

## Website
http://www.dream.fr



This  publication  neither  states  nor  implies  any  warranty  of  any  kind,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  implied  warrants  of  merchantability  or
fitness for a particular application. Dream assumes no responsibility for the use of any circuitry. No circuit patent licenses are implied.
The information in this publication is believed to be accurate in all respects at the time of publication but is subject to change without notice.
Dream assumes no responsibility for errors and omissions, and disclaims responsibility for any consequences resulting from the information
included herein.

## June 22th 2015
© Copyright 2013-2014 Dream S.A.S. France
